+++
title = "Building search tools in Go with Marty Schoch"
author = ["Wayanjimmy"]
draft = false
+++

link
: [GoTime 104](https://changelog.com/gotime/104)

related
: [Gotime]({{< relref "20210217104805-gotime" >}})

What is the naive approach of building a search engine?

The basic way I think about it is you really have the overall process
divided between the two phases. We think of indexing, which is the
process by which you take your sets of things that you wanna work with -
"documents" is another word you'll hear us use a lot - and you're gonna
ingest those and build the index. You're gonna spend the CPU time to
crunch some things around in the documents, and ultimately create some
representation that we call the index.

That could be in memory only, or more commonly you also wanna be able to
persist that to disk, so that you can sort of stop your process, start
it again later, and so forth. All of that is what we talk about as the
indexing phase. Then once you have an index built, you often want to
then use it to run searches. The idea is, like you said, I have some
notion of "I wanna find all the documents that have this word, or this
set of strings." So that's your search phase of operation there.

The basic idea is you wanna think in advance about what kinds of
searches you wanna run, and ultimately that will help you decide what
the right index to build is. It's not like a one-size-fits-all solution;
you do need to give thought to what kinds of searches do I wanna run,
and then make sure that I build the appropriate index to serve those
kinds of queries later.

Elastic search and Solr is built on top of Lucene To be completely
honest, everyone would probably agree that Lucene is probably considered
to be the state of the art in terms of this space, for full-text search.
It's been around for a long time, it's open source as well, it's written
in Java, and it has a lot of people that have used it. Elasticsearch is
really a whole company, starting with a server, and now a whole suite of
things that started by building on top of Lucene.

There's Solr, which is another product out there that's (again) built on
top of Lucene... And Lucene has contributors from both Elasticsearch and
Solr pouring improvements into it... So that's really what I would say
is the state of the art. And when I say that, what I mean is it's
proven, it's been around for a while, and it's like - you're not just
gonna sit down and say "Let's just rewrite Lucene. Let's just port
Lucene." Those are big efforts, just because of the sheer number of
15-20 years of effort going into these projects.
